[ Siren wails ]
[ Police radio chatter ]
[ Crying ]
[ Radio chatter continues ]
[ Vehicle door closes ]
[ Provenza sighs ]
[ Door closes ]
A-ha!
Landlord works quick.
I thought the same thing,
but apparently
the sign's been up for
a few months.
So you can keep your faith
in humanity another day.
I wouldn't count on it.
What happened?
So Tori Duncan found the body
of Mary Conrad,
her 72-year-old aunt, when
she dropped by to pick her up
for a doctor's appointment.
Huh. Well,
her aunt still has
a doctor's appointment,
though I think we all know
the diagnosis.
Now tell me, why is this
a major crime?
[ Inhales ]
Dead aunt used to be a cop.
[ Sighs ]
[ Camera shutter clicking ]
[ Police radio chatter ]
Used to be a cop.
-Mary, um...
-Nolan: Conrad.
Right. Mary Conrad.
Sykes: The front door
was obviously forced.
And personnel says Mary
retired D1 from Fraud.
Joined the Academy in 1973.
1973?
1973 is the year I joined.
She must have been
a classmate.
Oh, and she retired
23 years ago.
Well, you can lose the tone,
Buzz.
Why don't I remember her?
And this is all the rollout
we do for a former cop?
I mean, where's the media?
Well, this was probably just
a follow-home, sir.
There's, uh, no cash
in her wallet,
a bunch of drawers were
pulled open.
She's the perfect target --
older, feeble, lives alone.
It's a sad way
for a cop to go.
Is there any sign
of a murder weapon?
Uh, we found this, sir,
near the body.
Someone wiped off the sides,
sir, so blood, but no prints.
She was killed
with her old badge?
I assume she kept it displayed
on top of the credenza
by the door.
Kendall. Kendall, time of death.
Uh, 9 to 11 p.m. last night.
She took three or four hits
to the head,
but just one blow
would've done it.
Provenza: Well...
these are uncertain times.
Sykes, I want you to, uh,
call the number on this receipt
and see if anyone
in the grocery store
remembers Mary Conrad.
Or if anyone noticed someone
following her home last night.
Sir, I'm not sure
a follow-home makes sense.
Oh?
There's no damage
to the deadbolt.
Sanchez: Well, it probably means
that she heard a knock, Buzz,
and then went to the door
and opened it with the security
chain still on it
to see who was outside.
The door was smashed in,
which makes perfect sense
with a follow-home.
Yes, except why come all the way
back to the door
with the groceries in her hand
and not set them over there --
Is that your big issue,
the location of the groceries?
Sorry, Columbo.
Mary was obviously turned around
still holding the bag.
Don't make theories
out of spilt milk.
Buzz has a point, though,
Lieutenant.
Killing Mary with the badge
seems more personal
than opportunistic.
Sanchez: Well, maybe it was
a follow-home
until they saw the badge
and then they realized
that she was a cop.
I'm telling you, Julio,
she looks so familiar.
And -- and Sykes said that
she worked Fraud?
-More like she was a fraud.
-What?
In addition to pocketing
all the cash we found
in these, uh,
children's birthday cards,
Mary had a lot of mail
and packages in her closet
addressed to this complex,
but not to Mary Conrad.
She was "collecting"
her neighbors' mail.
That explains the random
stuff in here, sir.
Sykes: Well, taking things
that didn't belong to her
might've been a habit.
The grocery store called
the cops on Mary
for shoplifting last night.
-What?
At around 8 p.m.
I'll get in touch
with the reporting officers.
-Man: Hey, police!
-I need to get my Vitamix!
Oh, hey, hey. Stay on the other
side of that tape, sir.
This is a crime scene.
What are you doing?
Sure, of course, but, uh,
you guys find a Vitamix
in there?
-Excuse me? A Vitamix?
-It's like a blender.
How soon can I get that back?
How soon do you want to be
a suspect for murder?
Look, everything on the inside
of that apartment is evidence.
Oh, come on. That Vitamix
wasn't even hers.
I ordered it from Amazon,
and I think she stole it
off my doorstep.
And when I confronted
the old bag,
she gave me this.
Oh.
I remember Mary.
And if I'm right, there's
somebody who knew her
much better than I did.
Mary took a swing at me
when I relieved her of duty.
Sanchez: Why were you
investigating her, ma'am?
Well, when she'd make an arrest
for fraud,
Mary sometimes accepted
"thank-you gifts" from banks
and retail outlets.
Oh, my gosh.
That is so against the rules.
Yeah, well, that didn't keep her
from trying to justify it.
She even mentioned that
FBI agents
get to keep a percentage
of confiscated funds.
Lucky bastards.
Where is she? Where is she...
But, you know, Mary's main
defense was that her Captain
didn't like having a woman
in his unit.
Well, it was a bit of
a boys' club back then.
Still is.
I'm not sure, though,
how much of a committed
feminist Mary was.
When I asked for her
service weapon back,
she called me a bitch.
Oh. Well, that's shocking.
[ Sighs ]
Funny that she turned out
like that.
I'm sure I liked her
in the Academy.
Mm.
You canned her, right?
No, I offered her a demotion
and a chance to work
her way back up,
but she retired instead --
Hi, we were asked to come up
and debrief you
on an incident report?
Yeah, you guys dealt with
Mary Conrad last night?
Okay, well, look, we need you
to review the footage
off your body cams with us.
Buzz, are we all set up?
Follow me, please.
Uh, Lieutenant,
just a reminder, sir.
I have to leave early
the day after tomorrow
to get Mark's grandmother
to appoint me
his probate guardian
before the judge, sir.
Right, right, right.
And then, I promised Mark that
I would take him
for a round of putt-putt, sir.
Putt-putt?
I don't even think
I know you anymore.
[ Laughs ]
Mary:
You call yourself police.
And you're out here accusing
an old woman of stealing?
I have a receipt.
Woman: What about for the stuff
in your purse, ma'am?
Don't "ma'am" me.
I am Detective Mary Conrad,
retired,
and I am investigating a fraud
at this supermarket.
Man: If you're retired,
you don't have any
jurisdiction here, ma'am.
Oh, okay. We'll see about that.
Go ahead. Cuff me.
Take me downtown.
[ Beep ]
Why did you deactivate
your button cams
when you left the store?
'Cause we weren't gonna
arrest her.
Why not?
Look, anybody working
Olympic Division knows Mary.
She's caught shoplifting
once a month.
And each time you let her go?
What? Professional courtesy?
She only steals little stuff --
candy bars, olive oil.
She's old. Nobody wanted
to press charges.
Mostly Mary's just
a pain in the ass.
We didn't wanna waste time
booking her.
With genuine bad guys
on the street?
No, we just -- we give
whatever she's stealing
back to the store,
and that's it.
If she complained, you can see
we did everything by the book.
We were very cordial.
Even offered to drive her home.
You did?
Did she accept?
She said she had
an Uber waiting.
Oh. So maybe it wasn't
a follow-home murder.
It was an Uber-home murder.
Hold on. Someone killed
Mary Conrad?
Yes. I'm afraid so.
Did either of you notice
her driver
or if anyone might have
followed her home?
When she didn't call
this morning,
I knew something was wrong.
I was running behind,
and whenever I wasn't on time,
she, uh -- she...
If my wife or I were even
a minute late
picking up Aunt Mary,
our phones would ring.
She, uh, valued promptness.
What Al wants to say is that
Aunt Mary complained a lot.
And she did. She was tough.
And grumpy.
Even the last...
-No wonder you liked her, sir.
-Well, yes, Julio.
I just can't remember why.
She was really needy.
But she, um, could be
really funny, too.
You know, Aunt Mary had a lot
of really good stories.
When I was little she used to
play a lot of games with me.
I mean, she cheated, of course,
but, uh,
she was always obvious
about it, so she, uh,
you know, made me laugh.
Mary came back from the store
last night in an Uber
booked on your credit card,
is that right?
Probably, yeah.
We put the app on her phone
a few months ago
logged into our account.
Her driving had become
really erratic.
She would just leave the car
wherever she wanted.
After about 30 parking tickets,
we, uh, convinced her
to let other people drive
her around instead.
[ Chuckles ]
She always got to ride
Uber Select, too.
Which not even
I'm allowed to do.
Because of her back pain, Wyatt.
Aunt Mary was in pain
a lot of the time.
Did she have any new complaints
recently?
Anyone new bothering her
or threatening her?
Yes. Oh, my God. Yes.
Al, remember?
A few weeks back she told us
about this ex-con
she had put in jail
20 years ago.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He just gotten out of prison,
I guess,
and he was coming around,
screaming at Mary
for ruining his life.
She, uh, she wanted
the landlord
to put up security cameras,
but he just flat out refused.
I should've pushed him harder.
Do you have the ex-con's name?
No. She didn't say.
My God. Why didn't she say?
That's okay...
We should check
Mary's arrest records
against all releases
from state prisons
over the last two years.
Already on it, Lieutenant.
We will follow up on
this information right now.
She, um...
She was a good detective,
wasn't she?
She was...unforgettable.
Sort of.
Sort of unforgettable.
So we should check out
any store owners
who might've been fed up
with Mary's shoplifting.
Yes, and check the neighbors
with missing mail.
Track down her driver
from last night.
Fraud will have all
her old cases up here shortly.
Or maybe we can identify
the ex-con
who supposedly paid her
a visit.
Okay, that is enough to start.
Let's see if any of these
leads/motives pay off.
Hang on. We may have
another one.
We found this box
of dog biscuits
in Mary Conrad's apartment.
-There's the happy couple.
-Ricky!
Mom, Andy, congratulations!
How does it feel to be engaged?
Oh, uh --
[ Laughter ]
Wait, what?
-Engaged? Congratulations!
-Congratulations.
Where's the ring?
Didn't the Lieutenant
buy you a ring, ma'am?
Oh, my God.
Well, you're still engaged,
right?
Well --
Yes, we are.
We just haven't announced it
yet, that's all.
Oh, no.
Oh, God.
Oh, no. I -- I'm so sorry.
Really?
I-I thought he knew not to
bring it up. I'm sorry.
You know what? Both of you,
it's -- it's all right.
We were gonna have a little
party, and, yes, Andy did,
of course, give me a ring,
but I left it at home because --
Oh, God. Mom, I ruined
your surprise. I'm so sorry.
You know what? I am so happy
to see you. I am.
I am absolutely thrilled.
[ Inhales sharply ]
We will celebrate later.
I promise, okay?
Uh-huh. Yep.
Uh, for now, Mike,
you were saying?
Ah, the future Mrs. Flynn.
Oh, well, that's still
under discussion.
-[ Laughs ]
-But come on.
Anyway, I thought it odd
Mary had an open box
of dog biscuits in her apartment
when she doesn't have a dog.
So I put one of the dog treats
under the otoscope --
They're coated with rat poison.
Mary Conrad probably killed
somebody's dog.
Well, you were right.
This list of motives
just got longer.
♪♪
Not bad, Andy. Nice work.
Oh, well, I can't afford a ring
as beautiful as she deserves,
but thanks.
This is much more than enough.
So, did you pick a date?
When's the ceremony?
What?
Rusty, how 'bout if we go
and get some air, huh?
Okay, sure.
You know, Ricky,
there are issues.
Mom, no, no, no, no. This is
your time to be happy.
Don't postpone it.
I am trying to move things
along, but I need a minute.
Well, I'm not telling you
to get married today.
I'm just saying, take your foot
off the brake.
But if I want to get married
in the Catholic church -- oh.
I don't know.
I do.
I went to church last week.
I talked to the priest.
He said all of Dad's past
behavior -- the drinking,
gambling, disappearing acts --
they create grounds
for an easy,
straightforward annulment
of your first marriage secured
by your local bishop.
Your father is gonna
have an issue with that.
Oh, I already talked to him.
You what?
Yeah, three days ago.
So did Emily.
We walked dad through
the entire thing
and we made it abundantly clear
that if he wants to continue
to have a relationship
with us,
then he has to agree
to the annulment.
And Jack was okay
with all that?
Oh, he was pissed.
[ Both laugh ]
But he agreed to sign
a letter of approval.
I've already sent him a draft
and he's promised
to have it back to me
by next week.
How did you know to talk
to your father
about my annulment?
Mom, how could we not know
what the church means to you?
And how can we not go
full out for our mother
who gave so much to us?
[ Sighs ]
Is there something else?
Yes.
I am not the only
divorced Catholic
in this relationship.
Oh! Mm --
Well, Andy's ex-wife
remarried.
Isn't that grounds
for annulment?
An annulment of Andy's
former marriage
has got to be his idea,
not mine,
and certainly not yours.
Hmm. Okay.
Well, then, would you consider
getting married
outside the church and finally
stop letting them dictate
who is
and isn't your family?
[ Man sighs ]
Lola was like my child.
I fell apart when she died.
Still difficult
to talk about it.
When the vet said
she'd been poisoned? Ooh.
It ran through your mind, then?
That Mary might've done it?
Oh, yes, instantly.
[ Scoffs ]
Why?
Well, she just seemed so...
so...smug
after Lola passed away.
She asked me,
"Where's your little girl?"
And she had this look
in her eye
like she knew
the answer already.
Provenza: Yeah, well, Griffin,
do you have any idea
why Mary
would have killed, uh...
Lola.
...Lola?
No! No, Lola never growled.
She didn't bark.
She was perfectly well-behaved.
She did sometimes go
swimming in the pool,
but no one ever
complained about that.
I think Mary just wanted
everyone else
to feel as unhappy and lonely
as she was.
She was a spiteful cow.
[ Inhales sharply ]
Bless her heart.
-She was spiteful?
-Mm-hmm.
Really?
So Mary didn't get a lot
of visitors?
Are you kiddin'?
Nobody could stand Mary.
[ Door opens ]
Finally got a hold
of someone at Uber.
The driver that dropped off Mary
picked up another passenger
about three minutes later.
So unless he killed her
at high speed...
He's not a suspect.
Anything else?
He gave Mary a 1-star review,
which is not a surprise.
Ooh. Emerald cut.
-Very nice.
-Mm...
I would never say that
I'm glad she's gone...
[ Tao chuckles ]
...but things may be easier
for me now.
I couldn't keep the units
filled with Mary living there.
I had six different renters
break their lease
just to get away from her.
Why didn't you report her
to the police?
She kept telling me
she was the police
and that they would always
take her side.
Oh, I lost some of my best
renters 'cause of Mary.
Well, he had enough motive,
but is he the type?
Then there was this guy
that'd been comin' around.
What guy?
Well, the guy that kept, um,
lurkin' outside the complex.
It could be the ex-con
Tori mentioned.
When I approached him...
I have jackets on everyone
Mary arrested and was released
over the last couple of years.
Six men, all on parole.
Should make things easier.
They had this huge
screaming match.
Nolan: When did this happen?
Griffith: A week or two ago.
What did this guy look like?
A height? Hair color, age, race?
He was a white guy.
Probably 50's. Tattoos all over.
Provenza: Do you remember
anything else about him?
Oh, he was enormous,
like a supersized fella.
How is this for supersized?
Dustin O'Brien.
He was convicted of fraud
in 1992.
Nolan: All right, Griffin,
would you
write all this down
for us, please?
Sentenced to five years
and an additional 20
for violent behavior
and an escape attempt.
25 years, that's plenty of time
to develop a grudge.
Yeah, and he was released
last month.
Okay, while we are going through
Mary's finances
to make sure there's
no motive there,
Lieutenant, call
Dustin O'Brien's parole officer.
Let's pay Mr. Supersize
a home visit.
[ Dog barking ]
He showed up for his
appointment last Wednesday,
but I don't know Dustin's
whereabouts since then.
He lists this place as
his current address.
His cousin's house, I think.
Sir. I just wanted
to remind you.
Julio, if you bring up your
court hearing one more time,
I am going to arrest you
instead of this suspect.
Now I promise you, you will
get out in time tomorrow
to legally putt-putt
your way through the windmill.
Are you guys lookin' for Dustin?
We are. Is he here?
Nope. Haven't seen him since
a couple nights ago.
Are you gonna arrest him?
Uh, you have a reason we should?
Yeah, to get him off my couch.
You want your cousin arrested?
Yeah, he's a freakin' drag, man.
No job, no help
around the house,
complaining about his life
day in and out.
All the stuff I divorced
my husband over.
We need to search
your property.
Whatever. If it'll help you
take Dustin with you,
I'll give you a guided tour.
So he's been sleepin' here.
All his stuff's
in the hall closet.
I was, like,
10 when he went to prison.
I just let him stay here 'cause
his brother won't talk to him.
Didn't think he'd be here
this long.
He's takin' advantage.
Lieutenant, found a box
of .22s in here.
No sign of a gun.
There's your parole violation.
Come on, Dustin, you moron.
[ Dog barking in distance ]
Guess who's home?
Hey, Dustin. You got a minute?
[ Barking continues ]
Go, go, go!
[ Tires screech ]
Whoa, whoa! You're staying here.
Stop! Stop, stop, stop!
[ Tires screeching ]
[ Engine roars,
tires screeching ]
[ Siren wailing ]
Shit!
Excuse me, folks!
I'm parallel on Avenue 28.
I'll cut him off at Albion.
[ Siren continues ]
[ Horn honking ]
[ Tires screech ]
Shit!
[ Siren stops ]
Mr. O'Brien,
stay in your vehicle
with your hands
over your head!
-Get down on your knees!
-Get down. Get down, asshole,
or I'll shoot you dead!
Wes! Stand down.
What? Lieutenant,
we found ammunition.
Stand down.
I will handle this.
You do not fire your weapon
unless you see
a gun pointed at us.
Dustin, you're injured.
You can't escape.
Stop where you are, or things
are gonna get worse
very, very fast.
Good. Now get on your knees.
Do you have a weapon?
No.
[ Dustin breathing heavily ]
Get down on your stomach,
hands behind your back.
[ Handcuffs clink ]
-[ Groans ]
-Come on.
-Aye, yi, yi.
Sykes, roll paramedics.
[ Dustin panting ]
Please.
Please, I don't want to
go back to prison, man.
How 'bout a hospital?
[ Helicopter blades whirring ]
Wes, give me a hand.
Sykes: [ Speaking indistinctly ]
...Major Crimes,
unit 1465.
Please have paramedics
respond to our location.
[ Groans ]
I have one male with traffic
accident-related injuries.
[ Sirens wailing in distance ]
Okay.
So all Andy has to do is show
he was emotionally unprepared
to be married
to his first wife.
The bishop will grant
the annulment.
Couldn't be easier.
Except that mom wants him
to come up with the idea
on his own.
Mm.
Why is she so set
on getting married
in a church anyway?
I mean, she goes to mass a lot,
but Andy doesn't.
I don't. You don't, do you?
I'm an Easter Catholic.
Look, it's -- it's not
about us, okay?
The church was Mom's support
system while we were growing up.
They gave her a break
on our education,
they gave her child care when
she worked late at night,
and the church centers her.
It really does.
Look, maybe one way of handling
this would be to ask Andy.
Ask Andy what?
Hey, good morning.
Good morning.
[ Chuckles ] Oh, uh...
[ Clears throat ]
Oh, uh, we were just gonna --
We wanted to know if you, uh...
Actually, there's -- there's --
there's no need to hide it,
Ricky.
Um, Andy, we were just wondering
a little bit about
your last marriage.
Not that it is really
any of our business.
No, no. And if you don't want to
discuss it with us, it's fine.
Right.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm glad you asked.
I meant to give you boys
some assurances about that.
Sandra, ah.
We married too young.
But my mom was getting older,
and she wanted grandchildren,
so we just went for it.
But when the kids were born,
I wasn't ready.
Instead, I just drank too much
and made mistakes.
The children kind of grew up
without a father.
And all the while, Sandra was
back home being the best mom
she could, working full-time,
trying to love me.
So it sounds to me
like back then,
you were just a little...
emotionally unprepared
for marriage, maybe?
Oh...
Yeah, well, that's letting me
off the hook a lot.
But you're not wrong.
Look... [ Clears throat ]
The important thing is,
I've accepted responsibility
for my bad behavior,
and I've worked hard
at making amends.
And I don't ever want to be
in that situation again.
Believe me. Don't be worried.
I'm emotionally ready
for your mom.
I am.
Everything you're asking him
about happened years ago.
Is there anything Mr. O'Brien
can speak to
that's not
in the distant past?
Well, you developed some violent
tendencies in prison,
didn't you?
You assaulted a fellow inmate.
Yeah. I became an animal
to survive.
Yeah,
you attempted to escape.
To go to my father's funeral.
He died when I was locked up.
So yeah, when I got out,
I wanted to see what kind
of life she was living
after she ruined mine.
He blames Mary the way
she blamed you
for her demotion, ma'am.
Mm-hmm.
They had a few short
conversations.
But there were no signs
Detective Mary Conrad
feared for her safety.
That bitch wasn't scared
of me at all.
Dustin, please.
He wanted an apology.
Nothing more.
Until Sunday night.
When he suddenly
wanted her dead?
Let's hope so. If we can't
find any financial reason
for someone to off her.
Outside her L.A.P.D. pension,
$50,000 a year,
Mary had nothing but her family.
What made Sunday stand out
from all the other days
he hated Mary Conrad?
On Sunday, he witnessed
Ms. Conrad shoplifting
at a local supermarket.
She was shoveling spices
and candy and truffle oil
in her purse.
Truffle oil.
That shit's expensive!
Dustin alerted
the store manager
so the authorities
could be called.
Not that it mattered.
They just let her go.
She was laughing about it
when she got back home.
Getting out of her Uber,
laughing.
Ah, so, you followed her...
back...home.
Yeah, yeah. We get it, Provenza.
You were right.
Who's to say he didn't just
want to make sure
she got home safe?
So he wanted her arrested
and he wanted her home safe?
What's the matter
with the way I said it?
Well, Miriam, I guess
you're gonna be using
the SODDI defense.
SODDI? What?
S-O-D-D-I. Stands for,
"Some other dude did it."
It's a crude reduction
by the police
of a valid defense that keeps
many innocent people
out of jail.
But what exactly did
some other dude do, Lieutenant?
So far as Mary Conrad goes,
I don't see a crime.
Mm.
How 'bout murder?
We're sorry that we didn't
mention it earlier,
but we just assumed Dustin here
would've told you
how he broke down Mary's door
and bashed in her head.
What the hell?
I'm...sure you can see
my client's shock
at learning of
Ms. Conrad's death.
-I'm equally surprised that...
-Great performance.
You know they have
acting classes in prison now.
I didn't do it. I didn't do it!
-I don't believe you, Dustin.
-No, I'm serious.
If she's dead, then some
other dude really did do it.
Look, I did go to her house
that night like I said.
I thought about confronting her,
following her inside.
I even went to the entrance.
I looked in the courtyard.
I saw --
I saw another guy coming out
of her apartment.
Dustin, it sounds like
you may be confused.
-I did, though, I did.
-It sounds like desperation,
which could help us with a deal,
but we still don't have
any physical evidence.
Buzz, pull up
the crime scene footage.
Maybe there's something
we haven't noticed.
[ Taps key ]
Dustin: And he was looking
around like he was upset.
Like he was looking to see if
anybody was in the courtyard.
You know? Then he put
his hands in his pockets
and he walked away
from Mary's place.
I moved back out of the way.
And when he got to the street,
he took off runnin'.
-And he got in a black sedan.
-Oh. A black sedan.
The most common vehicle
on the streets of L.A.
Let me guess -- the guy was
medium height, medium weight.
Pretty average-looking?
Yeah, yeah.
How do you know that?
Because you're describing
the most generic human on earth.
Dustin, please shut up.
My client had nothing to do
with the murder of Mary Conrad.
And in fact, think about that
while you consider
his so-called parole violation.
Hang on.
There's actually something
there. Go back, Buzz.
If you wanna know why
he attempted to avoid
a confrontation
with the police --
Hang on.
Sharon:
What do you see, Mike?
First, look at him.
Now look at the wall.
...brutal use of force.
If someone shoved this door
open from the outside,
especially someone as big
as Dustin O'Brien...
The wall would've sustained
damage.
But there's nothing there.
Not even scraped paint.
Buzz, do you have this wall
very, very well-documented?
-Yes, ma'am.
-Then, Julio, if you could
provide us with a demonstration
as to how this door
may have been broken open.
Buzz, let's video this.
Wow. And Sanchez probably
isn't half as strong
as Dustin O'Brien.
Though, you know, plenty tough.
[ Chuckles ]
So in order to leave no damage,
the killer must've yanked
the door open from the inside.
After Mary was dead.
And they had to be quieter, too.
It explains why no one
reported a crash.
And why the groceries were
spread out on the floor.
They were staged.
Sharon: So the killer
was inside waiting for Mary
and only made it look like
a break-in after the fact.
-Which means...
-I know.
It wasn't a follow-home.
♪♪
[ Indistinct radio chatter ]
-Hey.
-Hey. What are you doing here?
Telling Andy to get
his marriage annulled.
Dude, hey. That's exactly what
Mom said not to do.
She made rules about this,
Ricky. Rules.
Damn the rules, Rusty.
I head home tomorrow.
I'm not leaving this unresolved.
Okay --
Mom isn't always right,
you know?
She spent far too much time
waiting for my dad to come --
No, I've...thought of
another way.
What other way?
There is no other way.
Andy isn't picking up
on the hint.
He doesn't have to.
Look, I have a plan
already in progress, okay?
-Just hear me out for a second.
-[ Sighs ]
Flynn: Makes no sense.
The killer
didn't force his way in.
Mary just opened
the door for him?
I doubt Mary liked anyone enough
to just let them in.
Especially with an apartment
full of stolen goods.
Sanchez:
Someone was lying in wait.
Mary's landlord, Griffin.
He'd have a key.
Um, and Griffin
had a serious motive.
He treated his precious
little Lola like family.
And not only did Mary
kill his dog,
she was bad for business.
Did I misread
our outraged landlord?
Invite him back in,
and this time
let there be no doubt
as to why he's here.
Wait, why -- why do I need
an attorney?
We're not saying you need
one, Griffin.
We just like to give all
our murder suspects
their Miranda rights.
I'm a murder suspect?
This is so rude!
-Why?!
-Mary killed your dog.
Yes. Yes, she murdered
my poor little Lola.
So I have motive,
but I did not have the means.
[ Scoffs ] The means?
Got to love a suspect who's
watched all the crime dramas.
I don't think it'd be too
difficult for you to kill
a 72-year-old woman.
And as the landlord, wouldn't
you have keys to her apartment?
Makes it easy for you
to lie in wait.
Lie in w-- oh, my goodness.
Look,
I'm not the only one
with a key.
At least three other people
had keys.
And so that's plausible
deniability, right?
You can't put me on trial
if there's all these other --
other suspects.
Oh, my God. Suspects.
I'm a suspect.
Forget that.
Who else had a key?
Well, Tori did, of course.
-Tori Duncan, Mary's niece?
-Yes!
And why do you say,
"of course"?
Not everyone gives a key
to their family member.
-It was Tori's apartment.
-It was?
Yes!
She and husband paid the rent.
And the utilities
and everything else.
It was their names
on the lease.
Why did Tori rent the apartment?
Mary kept her pension.
She had excellent credit.
Tori came by an open house
and told me about this
elderly former-cop of an aunt.
She sounded like
the perfect tenant, but...
Where did Mary's pension go?
And what else is her family
paying for, I wonder?
Nolan: $2,500 a month for rent,
another $300 for utilities.
And the cars she booked
ran another $140 a month.
Health care,
supplemental insurance.
You even gave her an ATM card
linked to your checking account.
So? Aunt Mary didn't have kids.
I was her next of kin.
But it had to have
caused some strain.
When you take responsibility
for another human life,
strain is...unavoidable.
Your aunt cost you over
$4,000 a month.
-You lost your savings.
-What?
Wyatt, please.
Are you saying that I'm not
going to Georgetown
because you were giving away
my future to that old bitch?
Wyatt!
Your aunt was family, and we all
had to make sacrifices.
-Oh, that is such bullshit.
-What about your life?
Let's look at that,
why don't we?
The piano lessons, the braces,
the private schools?
Saving what we can
for your college education?
Did you ever hear me complain
even once
about having to pay
for any of that?
-Mom --
-Did you?!
No. No, Mom --
God, I'm sorry. I-I didn't
mean it like that. I --
She was difficult.
She was trouble.
But she carried a gun
and a badge
for her entire career,
and I was never gonna
throw her out on the street.
Especially when she lost
her pension.
Wait, ma'am.
She lost her pension?
How -- how did that happen?
She picked
the lump sum distribution
and invested it
with the wrong person.
He promised her an annuity
of $60,000 for life.
Hold on, you can get
the lump sum distribution
of your retirement plan?
No. Never. And I checked.
Mary's pension went by
direct deposit
to a checking account
every other week.
An account her niece obviously
knew nothing about.
...she was taken
for all she had.
You people should've done
something about that.
Okay, we can see how upset
you are.
Let's get the rest
of the questions
we're required to ask you
out of the way right now.
Ma'am, where were you and Wyatt
on Sunday night?
Are you serious?
Did you hear anything
that I just said?
Did you hear
what I just said?
Where were you
last Sunday night?
Mom and I were at a seminar
for making the most
of your in-state university
experience.
It lasted from 6 to 9
in Long Beach.
So a billion miles away
from Aunt Mary's.
And your husband --
where was he?
Sykes: It's all right if you
want to remain silent.
We'll just talk to you
for a moment, Al.
After your son and wife
left for Long Beach,
you drove to Mary's apartment.
You parked your car down
the street
so Mary wouldn't see it.
We have a warrant
for that car.
And while you're sitting here,
not cooperating,
your vehicle is being searched
for traces of blood.
[ Door opens ]
Sykes: Plus we have
multiple eyewitnesses
that saw you enter and leave
Mary's apartment...
[ Door closes ]
...right around the time
of her death.
Well, that sounds promising.
And it's about 60% true.
They saw your black
Honda Accord.
They even gave us
your license plate number
because they also saw you
running from the building.
And that's 80% false,
but when all else fails.
You snuck into the house
of a defenseless old woman
who had nothing to her name --
She didn't have nothing
to her name.
Believe me.
Al, um,
we have found
more than enough evidence
to prove that the murder
was premeditated.
Is the death penalty something
you want for yourself?
For your family?
There could be mitigating
circumstances, Al,
but only you
can tell us that.
We could start with
why now?
I mean, after years
of taking care
of your wife's aunt,
why now?
[ Breathes sharply ]
On Friday, I got a call
from the Los Angeles
Fire and Police Pensions office.
When we moved Mary into
her last apartment,
I guess she didn't update
her address.
So after a few years
of getting returned mail
and not being able to
contact her, they called us.
And I find out...
[ Breathes sharply ]
I find out since the day
she quit,
Mary had a pension
of $50,000 a year.
15 years we've been
taking care of her.
Sacrificing for her.
My son, he's a bright,
decent,
hard-working, smart kid.
Sh-- She stole
my son's future!
[ Breathing unevenly ]
I don't know, Captain.
We may be further from murder
than it seems.
Can you tell us what Mary
said to you
the night you confronted her
last Sunday?
She said she never asked
for our help,
that what she had
in her bank account
was none of my business,
and that maybe,
if I'd been more responsible
with our money, like her --
Is that when you grabbed
her badge?
Her badge.
What a joke.
Sitting around with all
the stuff she stole.
No.
[ Clicks tongue ]
No, I, uh... [ Sniffles ]
I didn't pick up the badge until
I asked her to give me back
enough of our money so I could
send Wyatt to Georgetown.
She told me to leave
the apartment.
Her apartment.
Then...
you picked up the badge.
But only because I couldn't
find anything heavier.
[ Sighs ] Um...
those are really good
mitigating factors, sir.
Try and write them all down...
Sorry, people.
What we have here is
manslaughter.
The victim was a cop.
Rusty: He waited for her
in the apartment.
-Isn't that premeditation?
-He paid the rent.
It was his apartment.
He had the right to enter.
And he didn't bring
a weapon with him.
Yeah, but he knew
the badge was there.
Mary is immensely unlikable.
A jury will sympathize with Al.
Not to mention that
our eyewitness against him
is a violent con who's been
stalking the victim for weeks.
Al's lawyer will want a trial,
and his client could walk,
he could.
Poor Tori.
She worked so hard at keeping
her family together,
and it's splitting up anyway.
I mean, everyone
always understands
how rough it is for
the victim's relatives,
but no one ever thinks about
the murderer's family, do they?
And in this case,
it's one and the same.
Hey, how'd it go?
Great. I won at golf.
And the judge said Julio
would be the best guardian ever.
Well, if a judge says so,
congrats.
Yeah, Julio.
Congratulations, man.
Yes, great going,
Detective Sanchez.
But you're in it now,
my friend, up to your neck.
Hey, don't pay attention to him.
You two will make
a great family.
So do I get to call you Dad now?
Oh, uh, well...
technically, I'm --
I'm not your father, I'm --
But I'm --
I'm your son, right?
Um, technically, you're
what's called "my ward."
Technically? What's --
what's that? "Ward"?
No, I don't want you
to call me your ward.
How come I'm not your son?
Um, okay. How 'bout --
How 'bout this?
Pato and patito.
Duck and little duck, like in
"Make Way For Ducklings."
[ Laughs ]
Mi pato.
-Sanchez: Okay.
-Mark: Oh...
Here. You check my addition.
Ah. You heading out,
Lieutenant?
Can I take you for a drink?
Oh, uh, well,
I need to go by the cleaners,
get my funeral suit.
[ Chuckles ] I'm going to
Mary Conrad's service tomorrow.
Maybe there'll be somebody there
who can tell me
why I can't remember her.
And...asshole or not,
she was still a cop.
Well, no matter what,
Lieutenant,
I promise to go
to your funeral.
[ Chuckles ] What makes you
so sure I'm going first?
[ Sanchez speaking
indistinctly ]
[ Scoffs ]
[ Cellphone chiming ]
...and a bogey.
What's the total at the end?
[ Chiming continues ]
Hey, it's my ex-wife.
Oh, does she -- does she
call you often?
N-n-no. No.
Hold on a second.
Uh, hey, Sandra. What's up?
I, uh...I don't mind.
If that's what you want.
Yeah, sure. Go ahead.
Send it.
Okay, bye.
Okay.
-You're not gonna believe this.
-Hmm?
Sandra just filed
paperwork with the church.
Huh! After all this time,
she wants to have
our marriage annulled.
What? Really?
Oh! Wow. Andy, wow.
That's...crazy.
An annulment.
Are you okay with that?
Um, well, I guess I have to be.
You know, the more I think
about it,
I think this could all
turn out for the best.
You see, Sharon,
a church wedding
may not be totally
out of the question.
Yes, indeed.
He moves in strange
and mysterious ways
his wonders to perform.
And good timing never ends.
[ Chuckles ]
I have almost
my whole family here.
And I have an evening
free for dinner.
Great. I feel like celebrating.
-Hmm.
-Do you?
Celebrating what?
A deal. What else do we
celebrate around here? A deal.
A very good deal.
What number is that?
Tell me. Is that...